# BareTQL_GUI
A graphic user interface for BareTQL. Built under supervision of Dr. Davood Rafiei and with the support of an NSERC Undergraduate Research Grant

## Installation Instructions
Once you have cloned the repository, there are a few steps that you need to follow in order to get BareTQL GUI up and running. 
1. Download Nodejs from [Nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en/). Ensure that it installed correctly by typing `node -v` in a terminal to check the version installed. If you don't get an error, then it installed correctly. 
    - OPTIONAL: when running the back-end, the server must be restarted every time a change is made to one of the js files. A package called `nodemon` monitors js files for changes, and automatically restarts the server every time a file is changed and saved. This step is not mandatory, but if you plan on making changes to the back-end it will save you quite a lot of trouble. Type `npm install -g nodemon` in a terminal to globally install nodemon, or omit the `-g` to install it only for BareTQL. 
1. In your favourite terminal, cd to `../BareTQL_GUI/program/server` and type `npm i` to install the dependencies for the back-end. 
1. Cd to `../BareTQL_GUI/program/client` and again type `npm i` to install the dependencies for the front-end.
1. Finally, cd to `../BareTQL_GUI/program`. If you have installed the npm package `nodemon` as described in the above optional step, run the command `npm start` to start up both the front-end and back-end for the app. The services for the front and back-end will run simultaneously using the npm package `concurrently`. If you see a large printout in the console that is just the `Vue.js` requirements being built. If you have not created a database, you will see the error `Something went wrong with dbPath: server/data/database.db: SqliteError: unable to open database file`. Instructions to construct the database are found on the final step. If you do not have `nodemon` installed, run `npm run start_once` to run the front-end and back-end. Note that if any changes are made to the back-end, you must stop and re-run the command to see the changes. For this reason, if you do not have `nodemon` installed I recommend doing the following instead of running `npm run start_once`:
     - OPTIONAL: If you do not have `nodemon` installed, I recommend starting the front and back-ends in different terminals as restarting Vue.js can take time, and so restarting the back-end only will be better for development. Cd to `../BareTQL_GUI/program/server/` and type `npm run once` to start the back-end, and remember to re-do this after every change to the back-end. Then open a new terminal, cd to `../BareTQL_GUI/program/client/` and type `npm run serve` to start the front-end. Vue.js automatically saves when it detects changes, so manual restarting of the server is only needed on the back-end.

1. In order to use BareTQL, you will need a database. I'm currently fleshing out the minute details of how a user will do this, so for the time being use the files and directions located at [this link](https://bitbucket.org/tlafranc/baretql/src/master/). 